# XIS-CMS
Content Management Systems (CMS) are increasingly popular web application platforms used in multiple domains. CMS allow non-technical users to manage the content and features of websites with data-driven web modules, that abstract functionality without requiring any software programming knowledge. However, without the development of specific modules, a CMS usually cannot support more specific or complex scenarios. For that purpose, developers have to build custom modules using the CMS-specific language, which requires they must master the programming and technical skills. This is especially important when there is already a data repository in use on other applications and the CMS must manage or expose part of the information.  
    XIS-CMS is a Model-Driven Development approach to develop a CMS toolkit, containing a set of modules. The XIS-CMS approach includes a Domain-Specific Modeling Language (DSML), defined as a UML profile, and a companion framework defined on top of the [Sparx Systems Enterprise Architect (EA)](http://www.sparxsystems.com/products/ea/index.html) and [Eclipse Modeling Framework (EMF)](http://www.eclipse.org/modeling/emf) technologies. Using the XIS-CMS, platform-independent models are defined to specify CMS modules and generate the corresponding source code, increasing productivity and portability when developing for multiple CMS platforms, facilitating migrations and give a more abstract vision to non-technical stakeholders.

**© 2014-2016 Paulo Nunes Filipe, André Ribeiro and Prof. Alberto Silva (Supervisor) – Instituto Superior Técnico, University of Lisbon, and INESC-ID. All rights reserved.**
